i have a lot of those i have some crazy
[ __ ] stories the craziest thing about
that
story train is that when you said you
saw a pair of
ass cheeks clapping i was like what
how you doing bro good good good you
know just uh
you know had a late night playing rust
and uh
you know get some gambling on there and
you know hey
let's just say you know uh
luck wasn't on my side last night wait
so i heard something about this there
was some kind of like rust server or
something that came out
or something yeah what's the deal there
can you fill me in
pretty much um offline tv they created
this
um server for streamers on rust
so everyone can collaborate you know get
together and stream the game and
that's kind of what it is so we just get
on and it's just all streamers and
we just kind of and rust is like where
you guys like
like people like it's people like attack
each other and stuff right
yeah it's like a yeah it's like a
survival game i guess survival some [ __ ]
yeah it's not
survival i don't know and where does the
gambling come in
well you can so the current well i don't
know if it's a currency but there's this
stuff called scrap
i guess that's the equivalent to the
currency in the game and
um there's this wheel and you can gamble
it
make a wish oh for the eyelash i like
that
it's a middle eastern stuff right i
think so
yeah yeah so you know
hey yeah i pretty much go with the risky
bets you know
the one is pretty much like a 52 chance
of landing you double up everyone does
that but you know i'm only going 20 10
and five which is like the rarest ones
but hey you know big risk big reward go
baker go home right
go big or go home you know absolutely
man yeah
so train a couple things i was hoping
today i know we we've sort of been
we've mentioned addiction a couple of
times i i think you had alluded to
a few stories or experiences that you
had that we never really got into
um yeah so i was really hoping to hear
about that today and just what your
experiences have been
i think uh that could be really helpful
for other people to kind of hear about
and the second thing is just from a time
limit standpoint um i have to teach
uh in one hour and 45 minutes um
so i i really have to stop because
there's going to be a you know classroom
full of people waiting for me
um okay i should i shouldn't be late for
that so
um apologies if i if i have to stay a
little bit more focused today
so how long do we have an hour and 45
minutes
perfect if we're gonna meditate and
stuff then then we have to save time for
that
you know if ends up it ends up being
juicy we could do media you know
i'll do meditation on my own sure
absolutely
but let's dive in baby yeah let's do it
so tell me
yeah i think uh where where i where we
had left off is i think maybe you were
going to college
like we talked a lot about kind of your
upbringing and stuff like that
and then um you had sort of alluded to
substance use at certain times but i
don't think we ever talked about that
yeah i think um so
my entire life um
i've kind of just been like a dreamer
you know i've never really been grounded
you know feeling the ground i've always
been you know flying high
um you know no pun intended um
and i've always been a dreamer i've
always
you know
i've always you know um it's what i'm
looking for
i've always
i'll choose a different word but it's
not a good enough word but
i've always kind of grasped on to the
0.01
hope that something could possibly exist
that is you know outside of
what we understand to be like you know
possible or probably whatever the case
might be right
and like that's just kind of me right
i'm living in my head and
um you know in high school a lot of my
friends they
they knew how to live in the moment and
you know they could be failing all their
courses they could be
broke getting kicked out and somehow you
know
when they'd come over and do a sleepover
you know i would turn around and they'd
be sleeping with a smile on their face
you know and i'm sitting here busting my
ass you know getting good grades doing
this preparing for college
and i'm stressed i mean you know i'm
anxious
and i guess i've kind of always been
bored with the way things are with the
way
things what the way people tell you that
things are right i've always wanted to
kind of just venture outside of that
i've i've wanted to find the economy on
the status quo
yeah i've wanted to find the yeah the
adventure and the magic in the world
right sure so to speak
you know like uncharted lands uncharted
territory that
isn't on a map that can't be you know
seen on radar some crazy [ __ ] right
and which is which is kind of
interesting for a second because it
seems like
you know in high school you were kind of
walking the
the narrow path of a good iranian boy
you know getting the grades studying
hard
no no no no no definitely not no no in
high school
no in high school definitely uh no
no no in high school i was
i've been i've been pretty insecure
probably up until like my
26 27th birthday issue i'd say i've been
very very insecure i've always i've
never been like
i've always wanted to like
naturally like how i am it was it
what i was trying to be by fitting with
others i had naturally but i didn't
recognize that right because i didn't
have that self-love
i i you know i hadn't gone through like
a self-reflection or
a journey you know to really discover
myself
and love myself and accept myself and
through that i was just like a chameleon
just fitting in
trying to fit in different groups find
my place uh
find out who i was anyways so
back to the adventure stuff um a piece
of me has always crept chaos
i've always craved chaos you know i just
what is there something uh craving chaos
is like just craving a disorder craving
some sort of
storyline almost like creating problems
for yourself
that perpetuates some sort of like
it creates like a purpose like some sort
of
you know like because like we kind of go
about life we just kind of go like
robots right you go to school you come
home you do your homework you dinner you
go to bed
right you grow up you get to go to
college you get a job you're married you
have kids right it's just this like
stale
timeline the stale schedule kind of
adrenaline
survival a reason exactly there is
something a little more you know like
there's a storyline there that there's
there's something
you know so i've always kind of craved a
little bit of care or i've craved a lot
of chaos in my life
and i think i think that was kind of the
entryway into
some of the hard drugs i've done which
occurred through college i
i think i first dabbled in the hardest
of drugs
probably well i'd say i started freshman
year with like a little bit of like soft
medium drugs and then i went into like
sophomore junior i went some hard drugs
can you help me understand how you
classify
soft drugs medium drugs and hard drugs
uh a medium drug to me is like xanax
hard drugs like percocet oxycontin
heroin meth
medium drugs xanax you know vicodin
i'd say i don't know and then soft drug
i don't know
weed i don't know okay and
you know train if i ask you anything
that you don't feel comfortable
answering you just
i'm comfortable and the drug topic
uncomfortable
um because i think it is just important
to understand like your terminology so
you were saying like
soft drugs is marijuana um medium drugs
yes
is like benzos like xanax did you say
vicodin was a medium drug
uh i'd say vicodin is actually low-key
weaker than xanax xanax is actually
[ __ ] dangerous low-key so that's
that that's right a little bit harder
it's just like that's like one of those
things that's like
it's everywhere it's like it's become so
normalized that you don't see it as this
hard drug but xanax is definitely bad
i'd say it's
i think it's worse than vicodin to be
honest but then again i guess watching
dr house that's not the case
so yeah so so it occurs to me that maybe
um
you know maybe we need to just do a
little bit of public education i may try
to put something together just a little
bit about
what 100 please do different drugs so
one thing just so
everyone knows this is super dangerous
so first of all you know
i don't i really don't recommend any
kind of substance use at all really ever
um the the couple of things that really
get people into trouble
are just as an addiction psychiatrist
i've seen this
time and again where sometimes we'll
people will use a particular dosage
and then if they get sober for a while
they'll go back to their old dosage and
that can actually be lethal
and then i've had patients uh die or
overdose because of that
and the second thing is that drug
classes should really never be mixed
that exponentially increases the danger
so if you use benzodiazepines and
opiates together
your chances of death are way higher
because they sort of synergistically act
to suppress your breathing and things
like that
um so so really i mean first of all
don't do drugs and be super careful
because a lot of times people feel like
they can handle it and and they can't
which is why it's such a problem but
um just a couple of quick points but i i
hear what you're saying so just to kind
of recap
marijuana is a soft drug um medium drugs
it sounds like xanax and then
then the opiates and you you classify
meth as a hard drug
i'd say so do you know do you have a
sense of like when you started using
anything
sheesh i smoked my first blunt cell from
your high school
and do you have a sense of like what got
you into it
friends and like just kind of
like peer pressure or i don't know i'm
going to be honest it smelled
really good you know it's kind of it's
kind of cigarettes right
cigarettes smell really good but like
they just taste like [ __ ] right there's
terrible
weed it has that smell where you just
want to eat it you literally just want
to eat it
right but it's like it's it's it doesn't
actually taste like that when you write
some [ __ ] like that's what i'm assuming
right yeah
yeah so you don't hear pressure probably
yeah well no it's it's actually
interesting so that may not be peer
pressure
um so this is something that a lot of
people don't know is that
you know so i remember the first time i
had a beer i thought it was disgusting
even now when i have a beer i think it's
disgusting i had one sip of alcohol
yesterday and i found it to be
absolutely foul and abysmal
and then some of the the people i've
worked with will say that when they had
their first
sip of alcohol it tastes delicious
it's like like so so oddly enough
there's some evidence that based on
how your brain is wired i've never
really thought about smell but
the taste of things like alcohol can be
super super appealing
like your taste buds are wired like if
you have that
biological predisposition to being
vulnerable to like alcohol addiction
alcoholism
yeah it will taste amazing the first
time you try it
yeah i've heard of that and and i'm not
quite i've never really thought about
this with marijuana but i i wonder if
there's something similar where like
something in your brain is like oh that
scent is like
that has some of the chemical compounds
that like i really really want
never really thought about it that way
before but it's interesting i've never
heard someone
you know say that the first time i
smelled marijuana i like really wanted
to eat it
it's kind of it's kind of an interesting
yeah
yeah yeah that's it maybe yeah
and so it sounds like you started using
pot in high school anything else in high
school
well i i wasn't really using pot like i
wasn't like
i wasn't one of those pod head kids so i
played
dude don't lose it this time bro no i
think it's in my eye low key
but anyways i wasn't one of those
because i played varsity soccer from
freshman year all the way to senior year
so like i was
constantly doing conditioning constantly
you know
training just just blink because when
you're watching
no no yeah yeah but i have contacts oh i
don't know
that's what's going to change anything
so when i blink and there's eyelash in
there and it gets mixed with eye contact
or just slip underneath and it's even
worse
okay sorry yeah i didn't realize no
don't be sorry it's okay
um because a lot of times the way your
eyelid is
is designed is it pushes the hair
towards the middle
when it closes yeah it's not
mean or so available it sounds like in
college you started experimenting with
like soft to medium
yeah well i kind of fell out of the weed
thing you know
i don't know when like junior of high
school you know i started kind of
that that was the point where i you know
i think everyone hits a point where
you hit a stage in your life if you're
lucky i think
right because some people just kind of
stay
you know whatever but i think it hits a
stage in the life where they start
overthinking right they start
overthinking they trip themselves out
and i hit that i hit that phase so
anyhow i'd smoke i just overthink i just
you know freak myself out for no [ __ ]
reason you know what i mean
and i just stopped that all around right
but
i just yeah so marijuana stopped and
then
i think my freshman year i started
[ __ ] around some xanax
you know i do the mixing stuff you
talked about was bad which is like
drinking
that terrible and then the sense of
what pulled you towards that train i
would just say
just the
college i mean i don't know it was kind
of the party life
you know everyone was kind of just i
don't know you know it was something
you'd see at a blue mountain state
you know some chick you know you know
down getting crazy in the bathroom
i'm saying pop one of those take a shot
start [ __ ] you know kind of like one
of those crazy things right
kind of happens and then from there
you're like damn this feels good
and you want to feel that again right
but you can never feel that again
because
the whole trick joe was chasing that but
anyways
yeah i don't really like it too much to
be honest i mean it feels good at the
moment but hey
that xanax hangover that is terrible
that oh man that feeling can we rewind a
little bit i
i didn't understand some of what you
said and
and maybe that's because i just can't
relate to some of the experience there
but um what is that what do you mean by
the trick
oh the trick so it's like you know i
mean it's especially in like
especially in opiates right but this i
think applies to any drug right like
when you take it for your first time
what you're gonna feel is just
absolute euphoria greatness amazingness
unstoppableness right and then from
there on
right after a couple more times you
might feel that way and then from there
on you start building a tolerance
right and then you're kind of chasing
that original high you're chasing the
dragon
right so you take more you take more you
mix this mix that
but you never really hit it until you
[ __ ] your life up right so that's what i
meant by chasing the high
got it yeah and and so
i'm just curious i mean you mentioned
early on that you were kind of insecure
that you craved chaos
[Music]
you would kind of frame the discussion
with those at the beginning yeah go
ahead
yeah those aren't connected i just want
to make it clear because i still crave
chaos but
yeah okay i mean are either of those
connected with kind of like
you know the freshman party lifestyle
maybe how you felt about yourself
the insecurity yeah 100 i'm not really a
partier
because i'm not really a party like what
i am is
because you sound like one hell of a
party or dude yeah i'm
listen i can have a good time right you
know
i think to this day still i've thrown
you know the best party at a convention
so like i don't have a good time i'm
persian you know persians we love to
party we let's have a good time
but i'm more of like a you know hang out
with
you know the three kids in science class
in grandma's basement do some science
experiments eat some chips watch some tv
play a board game
that's me it doesn't look like me but
that's what i enjoy
partying it's not me it's just it's so
tiring it's just it's just tiring like
any like it's the crazy part we talked
about last time you know i'm a very
outgoing person you know i
i excel in any social situation you
throw me into a bin of strangers and
i'll come out you know friends with all
of them but
man it is is it tiring because like when
i go into these i don't
see it like i don't see it for like
so for example at a party if you go to a
party right i don't see a party as just
people having a good time
i'm looking and it's just like
everyone's
like everyone's trying to forget
everyone's trying to uh push something
that they need to do
away they're miserable they're sad
they're depressed no one's actually
everyone's fronting do you understand
like maybe there's a few people have
their [ __ ] together and they're actually
having a good time one time they're
gonna go back and study tomorrow
but it's like it's just it's just a
cesspool of [ __ ] it's the same with bars
right like for me
you know i worked in the bars for a bit
and when i look at a bar
or a club it just looked so gloomy to me
everyone else saw this fun
escape let's have you know let's go you
know this that adventure
to me it was just this it was a trick
it was literally a trick and no one
could see it right
it was this crazy thing that's at least
the way my brain saw it so yeah
it's never been that's never been me but
i think
in the search for myself
i guess that's just one of the paths
took me down and so when you were
partying like let's say early in college
i mean would you say it was an escape
for you
no what was it for you
it was a search for adventure
that's what it was yeah it was a search
for something
i was hoping that you know something
crazy should happen i'll be real
[ __ ] some crazy [ __ ] happen in those
days i have some stories for you oh we
can go for
hours we don't have that today though
but wow
but yeah do you feel adventure one
just to give us a sense well it's not
oh if it's not street stream friendly
then that's totally
well it i mean it's stream friendly but
i don't know how relevant it is just
yeah
what's all right well it's just
you know there are certain things you
know you can talk about because people
don't
i i'll just tell you so i was this guy
named kyle okay
it's funny cause me and kyle started as
enemies he was the best fighter in our
school he didn't like me
and he actually went to my high school
and he was one of the kids that kind of
[ __ ] with me and bullied me but
we ended up connecting after we kind of
like fought
always seems to be the case um anyways
he's the one that had issues with you
because you walked in with your head
held high
yeah yeah yeah but yeah and but he had
his own issues he
his his dad was you know military and
you know it was
some crazy [ __ ] you know his friends
would tell me stories
you know they'd go to his house after
school think this is in high school
thing that there's a kid that's
16 years old he brings his friends over
and his dad literally drunk as hell just
beats the [ __ ] out of him in front of
his friends
some [ __ ] up [ __ ] so i felt for the
guy he was he was a little twisted but
anyway so fast forward to college and
when i go to a party there's this place
called the view
at the time it was good i don't know if
it's trash now or not but
i remember i walk in with him and we're
kind of just getting [ __ ] up right
and just drinking and i'm standing
outside
i have like like the last two beers in
the whole party right that's how culture
works right
god knows where the hell the liquor's
coming from half the time it's hidden in
the owner's you know room
um anyways and i'm staying outside
you know i'm double fisting the beer
right some trash piss american beer
right some keystone light or some trash
like that terrible by the way
um i'm sitting there and this
this big [ __ ] six nine six nine
two fifty huge [ __ ] like just
steroid
geeked up walks up to me it's like
you're holding one of my beers i go no
i'm not
right at that point i'm drunk right i'm
feeling that good buzz right i'm at a
point
where superman could have walked up to
me and i would have thought i was his
kryptonite
you know i would have [ __ ] i would have
take i would have stolen lois lane from
him you know
that's where i was mentally this dude's
69 250 just steroid it out
he's with his friend and his friend was
a mutual of mine
he tries to grab my beer i turn away
i knock his hat off it falls over the
balcony
he pushes me and then a group of kids
form this like
alleyway out into the hallway
and they want us to fight but we end up
like scuffling and fighting
in the kitchen and he throws a punch at
me
and i dodge it and his his hand goes
through the door and the door
like the doors in these college areas
are paper thin it's not like these
nice wooden doors paper thin his hand
goes to this door
and i remember everyone's like oh we
both freeze i look
i turn behind me i look and all i see is
my
friend kyle's bare ass cheeks just
clapping cheeks just just he's going to
town
on this other chick in the bathroom on
the sink
and i'm like hey kyle right and then he
runs out right puts his pants on
we go into the hallway and
to this day i don't know
sometimes i feel like i dreamt this
because
i was in this superman
god complex mode where this dude's
throwing his haymakers right he's this
big guy he's slow
and you know his his his tr his uh his
lats are huge
so he can't throw a straight punch he
has to throw these haymakers
and i remember when i was looking at him
it was as if there was just slow motion
i was dodging and i was
laughing because it was so slow to me
and
each when i dodged i jabbed him i jabbed
him
and i ended up winning that i mean if he
was smart he would stick him in the
ground and [ __ ] me up but
he wasn't so i guess that's the
stereotype of the meat head but
yeah so that happened and then the next
day we end up going to a party and
he ends up being there and his face is
just messed up and he's like six of his
boys i'm by myself
very [ __ ] awkward but fortunately he
was a good guy and he apologized i
apologized
we're cool now wow that's the story yeah
i have a lot of those i have some crazy
[ __ ] stories the craziest thing about
that
story train is that when you said you
saw a pair of
ass cheeks clapping i was like
what right because you're in the middle
of a fight and that's that's the thought
that's all thing it's like
a movie yeah well yeah why are there but
like and then there's like no
there's no like segway into there the
door was open
no it wasn't the guy punched through the
door oh
i pulled his hand out there's a huge
hole and i look into the hole
and it's literally just a pair of ass
cheeks here
right he's just going to town it was it
was some hot [ __ ] yeah it was hot as
hell but i was in my adrenaline mode so
i couldn't really
get into that when i was
yeah crazy [ __ ] yeah that that's wild
man
yeah yeah it was yeah
anyways so around i'd say i'd say around
sophomore year
i met these two kids and
um they were actually pre-med they had
like 4.2 gpas
crazy gpas you know always studying in
uh you know the office hours
i think we called it lab or some [ __ ]
like that and
they were like smart ass [ __ ]
like they were
they were on track you know to you know
a top 10 med school
and at that time in my eyes that's like
the most credible thing
around me right you got someone that you
know has a good family
is a good guy has good values has a high
gpa
on track to a top 10 med school you know
doing shadowing and
you know uh internships things like that
right
to me that's incredible now these guys
they were secretly [ __ ] up right they
were on some crazy [ __ ]
right percocets oxycontin they were
smoking them doing heroin
so you know i kind of got involved with
them and in my head
i'm thinking okay well can't be that bad
these guys are
smart they're doing well [ __ ] like
right right [ __ ] it why not
yeah people who have their [ __ ] together
are doing it so
yeah i can some [ __ ] like that yeah
so it started out with you know perks
from perks you know smoking perks
from smoking perks to ocs from ocs
smoking ocs then ocs got banned and you
had these things called opanas which had
a coating over it so you couldn't smoke
it
and then from there you know obviously
those are 20 to 50 to 80 dollars a pill
you can get that amount times 100
for that same price if you do heroin
instead of that
and realistically what people don't know
is percocet is literally synthetic
heroin it's a clean heroine right it's a
pharmaceutical heroin
right no one knows that everyone thinks
they take a perk you know you know
because like there's a stigma behind
heroin and there should be but
yet percocet's like this accepted thing
if you get it prescribed but it's the
same [ __ ] [ __ ]
so right and i guess at the time that
that's a very dangerous
you know thing to kind of say because
but it sounds like i'm justifying it it
sounds like i'm saying oh well percocets
are prescribed this is the same thing
it's just dirty
right so it should be okay but it's not
okay so i want to make that very clear
that's very dangerous
what what is not okay i'm confused like
is it saying to yourself a percocet is
prescribed so that's
okay or you know i'm saying that like
cheaper i'm saying like if you know if
you go to your boy's house
and on the counter you see his mom's
percocet prescription you don't think oh
what a [ __ ] drug addict discussing i
got to get out of here bad vibes right
but if you you know see a needle in
heroin you're gonna [ __ ] need if you
just see heroin on the count you're like
[ __ ] like i gotta get the [ __ ] out of
here and call the cops never come back
here again right
but it's like they're one and the same
realistically right like sure
that's what i'm talking about right so
yeah anyways so you know that happened
you know
some heroin for like let's say three
years
tried meth once the meth experience was
nuts crazy story for you there
[ __ ] that was nuts i remember i came
home i
i told my mom i spilled you know some
some
chemical shampoo on my face and she's
like are those meth mites what the [ __ ]
oh she was tripping balls crazy i was it
was terrible i thought i was gonna die i
was up for seven and a half days
she was tripping she was pissed yeah
like tripping hasn't pissed she was real
angry
i don't know what else used meth i mean
listen if you would have saw my face
because i sat there i was picking the
whole like because listen
so the mets the meth thing was like the
at the very end of this binge
or binder whatever the [ __ ] you call it
so when i did math okay i was with this
like pro baseball player's kid
and we were at this like nice apartment
and it was just him and i
and i remember like before we did it the
same two kids that i did like
started heroin with they're like yo if
you're gonna do this with him you need
to make sure to tell him to eat
and drink water you need to [ __ ]
didn't
so i remember like i took this [ __ ] like
i smoked this on wednesday
smoke some meth on wednesday okay
i remember i walk out to the door
thinking it's thursday afternoon about
to go home
i check my phone i have like 300 missed
calls right
it's [ __ ] tuesday of the following
week
somehow like a whole
week had passed by and i was sitting
there awake
playing i remember ml some mlb mlb like
2k9 on the playstation
i played mlb2k9 on the playstation for
like six days
and i walked out of the house thinking
it was only one day it was
it was like six days i was gone and my
parents thought i was dead
there was some crazy [ __ ] [ __ ] and i
had no [ __ ] clue
my face was swollen picking my face and
[ __ ] like i had no idea
how much time had passed imagine that it
was some crazy [ __ ] [ __ ] it was it
was nuts
combat [ __ ] terrible yeah
so uh that that sounds crazy dude
um yeah it's pretty bad
i'm just trying to think so like like
you said that you you were using
so what like first of all your mom knows
what meth mites are
she googled it but what did she google
like so you come home and then i come
home i have like scabs and
just red all over my face she types in
red scabs all over her face and it says
methmites and she's like i thought it
was mathemates i'm like the [ __ ] are
those
yeah i look i look that [ __ ] up it says
like you know when you're high in meth
or whatever like
you have this like weird thing where you
perceive there to be
you think there is like tiny mites
underneath your skins you have to pick
them out that wasn't the case for me but
some crazy [ __ ] [ __ ] like that yeah
it was a crazy [ __ ] thing she was
[ __ ] mad and she was crying and
that was terrible i let her down at that
point but yeah
so uh train i mean what what were you
what was going through your head
let's say like you know like a year
before that point so it sounds like
you're using heroin for a couple or
opiates of some kind for a couple of
years off and on
like what did you think about your life
and what did you think about yourself
and what did you think about
use well nothing because
i somehow found this balance that gave
me this
perfect like denial of slash delusion
that like there was
something wrong here i found the balance
i was
you know double majored up i had good
grades you know
i had you know i had good grades great
grades i had
two very difficult majors i was getting
by and doing very well
right i was on track to you know a top
20 law school
everything was fine like it wasn't this
thing where i just tossed everything
aside i started selling my parents
jewelry and getting high like
i was i found this thing where i could
cold turkey
and it all goes back to like what i told
you earlier like that's that story line
that
that hope that adventure like deep down
i prefer that over any high right any
escape
any shortcut i preferred that real thing
that
search for that real thing that
connection overall and that's what
allowed me to actually
get out of it myself right there has to
be something you love more than the high
so like i see but that's how you got it
well yeah i wasn't yeah i wasn't so like
when i said i was using
three years what i mean is like i wasn't
using
for three years straight what i would do
is
for one week i would use then i had cold
turkey and i was off for three months
then i'd be on for two weeks then i'd be
off for four months right then i'd be on
for a week then i'd be offered two
months
like i could do that somehow i could do
i'm sure it was [ __ ] my body up
but somehow i found a method where i
could hold turkey off and on and just
use it like recreationally almost
while also going to school and having a
job
right so it's not so i didn't toss my
job out i didn't toss school out i was
still doing all of these things
and then like you know if i had nothing
to do one weekend right
if everything was done with i had a week
off
that's when i'd use it right does that
make sense yeah it makes a lot of sense
so it's interesting train i really
appreciate the conversation because i'm
learning a lot so
as a clinician i think the people
who are like you never really enter my
office
like i've never worked with someone
who's had an addiction let me think
about this before
i actually say it no one comes to mind
right now i mean usually the people that
wind up in my office are the ones that
can't cold turkey
after a week of use it's like one week
turns into two weeks turns into three
months turns into six months
turns into eight months it does start to
affect things
in in my time of using here's the [ __ ]
up part
you know and not many people know this
but anyone who's in the heroin game
right
your friends or at that you know i guess
from an outside perspective that none of
them are your friends they're your
acquaintances or people you're smoking
with but when you're in that you know
world that they're your friends
they're dropping like flies right like
four or five friends odin a week dead
right
i i've had people die in front of me
like some crazy [ __ ] like that like some
[ __ ] you'd set up a [ __ ] movie
and like i've seen it like like people
don't understand
it's some [ __ ] up [ __ ] right it's not
like the dude's eyes are closed and he's
just passed out you touch him oh he's
cold
right it's like
right dudes shivering shaking right
he's scared right it's some [ __ ] up
[ __ ] right like
i i've seen some [ __ ] up [ __ ]
especially because like everyone shot up
that's one thing i promised also i'd
never do i never went past smoking it i
never shot up ever
so many people died and if anyone like
is ever in that game they know
that it is it's it's people just die
it's just [ __ ] up
when people are dying what goes through
your head
the same thing goes through everyone's
head for every other thing in the world
not gonna happen to me
i'm careful right that's the story of
everyone's life
i think for every situation right
look at kobit right koben corbin norma's
mask not gonna happen to me right and
then suddenly their family member gets
it and now they want to be
you know they want to start taking
precautions right did and did anyone
around you think you had a
problem or tried to talk to you about
like did your parents know
i think they i don't know i had it from
them for a while
i finally told them and they helped me
and
yeah no they didn't know
cause i wasn't home much yeah
did anyone kind of express concern about
what you were oh every day
oh my my parents are expressed concern
every day but
they didn't know what was going on but
they knew there was something up
persian parents typically [ __ ] what and
what did what would they say
typical persian parent kid stuff
like what what what is that i don't know
for me it's all just melded into
typical i'm sure you can imagine yeah
i'm sure you can
well i mean so
i mean my story is like quite different
because
i wasn't using any drugs in college yeah
well i was referring to like like if
if you didn't do your homework if you or
if you had homework like whatever they
bicker at you there
take that exact line and throw it at
this well yeah so i mean the thing with
me is that i was failing out of college
though right so it sounds like you were
your drugs but absolutely bro dude after
after two years of college i had less
than a 2.0 gpa
well you gotta get into those uh groups
i this little secret society in college
right
there's like look there's this group
[ __ ] charged like 25 bucks per
class they'd give you
these guys had the [ __ ] intel right
they knew all the five credit courses
where the teacher didn't give a [ __ ]
right and if you get an a plus that's a
4.3
in a five credit course that's a huge
gpa boost right that's a huge pad
so you take a couple of those you know
boost you know the 2.0 2.5 to a 3.2 3.3
you know take a couple more of them you
know you end up graduating you know
whatever the [ __ ] cumulates
what the [ __ ] those are yeah i mean
first of all i didn't i didn't know
about that but secondly i mean my gpa
was pretty wrecked man like when you've
got
you know a string of 0.00 like when you
got a string of f's
on your transcript it's it's hard to i
mean i i sort of
i ended up graduating with like a 2.5
like
and that was busting my ass for three
years
didn't your school have the thing where
like like up to 12 credits they forgive
i mean it still shows in the transcript
but it shows that it counts the second
grade great
second grade if they did train i was so
disorganized that i didn't apply for it
i think it's yeah i think it's automatic
that well i mean it may be
it may have been something that they
instituted later
but like i went to college back in like
2000 like i started college in like
2001.
oh wow how did you get their horses
uh we would walk through the snow my
dude horses were too high-tech
yeah figured you know back when it
snowed in austin all the time
unlike this past week it just snowed two
days ago yeah insane i've been hearing
about it from everyone under the sun
yeah you know what's crazy though uh
before you
go off on those tangent um or whatever
anyways
what's crazy is uh in all of that
right now everything we talked about
there actually was a moment right where
i was
off the rails i remember it was
senior year right it was all done i was
graduating
i was working in a bar right it was the
hottest bar in
in the entire state of arizona right in
scottsdale town
and i was doing some crazy [ __ ]
like i was mixing we're talking
heroin xanax
drinking steroids like we're talking
four different things
hardcore and at this time
just to jump in train like seriously if
anyone there is watching that [ __ ] will
kill you
oh 100 i will and i'll tell you yeah
i'll tell you in a second what happened
at the time i wasn't very i wasn't too
serious about my bipolar
right and there's a huge thing that
happens with steroids and bipolar
i guess any of those drugs realistically
all of that all that mixing and [ __ ]
around i ended up having a psychotic
break
it was called acute psychosis it was a
temporary psychosis for two and a half
months
i remember my parents found me in the
living room banging and controller in my
head the remote control for the tv
and i was jibbering some [ __ ] i was
whatever saying some
whispering some [ __ ] like a [ __ ] cult
cult leader
man that psychotic break
you want to talk about hell [ __ ]
my entire like the best way i can
explain this
like in in short
there's a moment when you're kind of
like lucid dreaming asleep but like
you don't actually know that you're
asleep yet right
you think you're actually awake and this
is your real world right
there's a moment where you're in a
nightmare and in like at the precipice
of the nightmare
there is this just pure feeling of
terror
and evil in the pit of your stomach
right you just want to escape
you want to run you're praying that this
is a dream you want to wake up
that moment or literally when you
finally do wake up and
it kind of just like you know kind of
whatever the you know i'm trying to word
it
it slowly kind of dissipates right that
feeling was my it was my
state of mind it was my constant state
of mind for two and a half months
and all i was hoping for was one day
would i wake up did i
[ __ ] up is this permanent you know like
it was
it was hell it was sounds terrifying
i get goosebumps talking about it to
this day i was in
this two and a half month nightmare
where no matter what i did who i talked
to
where i was it was
like i'm about to cry it was scary it
was some [ __ ] up [ __ ] and the thoughts
i had
man some [ __ ] out of one of those
[ __ ] uh tarantino movies
and all of it to myself to others like
just some [ __ ] up [ __ ]
twisted [ __ ] like i was just
that was an insane two and a half months
of my life i
i don't think there was any hallucinogen
psychedelic any any none of that stuff
that has ever gotten me as close to
myself
as those two and a half months the
amount i learned
because those like those those
those those
locked chests lock deep deep into the
abyss of your mind are
rarely rarely even like gotten close to
you know in like self-reflection and
self-discovery and like looking inward
right and in that state of mind
all of them were like at my disposal i
was so deep
and so and i was in the darkest crevices
and all of them were unlocking like
just it was just some crazy [ __ ] [ __ ]
i can't even explain to you
it was some insane [ __ ] like it was just
[ __ ] that was some crazy
crazy [ __ ] i came back so hey
yeah you know train i i think it's
certainly
you know what you're describing i think
sometimes people don't
realize that hallucinogens and psychosis
and even meditation share some amount of
like common
aspects like if you look at the
neuroscience of it and how it affects
your brain
um but psychosis and hallucin and
hallucinogens are quite different
there is like yeah yeah i know i was
i was making a reference to it yeah
um and and so i'm really sorry you went
through that man that sounds
you know i can't imagine
i've had some scary experiences in
meditation but they they tend to last
at most 24 hours i don't think i've ever
had a negative experience that's lasted
longer than 24 hours
but for two and a half months to kind of
be trapped in that place i can imagine
it feels like quite hopeless and
traumatic
have you ever had your ear plugged
like your ears plugged like in a plane
your ears get plugged yeah yeah
have you ever tried a yawn and sometimes
it doesn't unclog
right that feeling where you yawn and it
doesn't
pop that was the feeling i had every
morning waking up
every morning when i woke up i was
hoping i'd open my eyes like that moment
where i kind of gained consciousness but
i'm not awake i was going to open my
eyes and i'd
look around and i was back to me yep
and that was that feeling that feeling
where you open your mouth
and it doesn't pop like that that
feeling you have that like you can't get
it to pop and there's no other way to
get it to pop and you're stuck in this
way until finally what somehow it pops
by itself
that's the feeling i had every day
trying to get back to me and hoping i'd
come back to me
and that was two and a half months it
was [ __ ] crazy it was insane
yeah i mean it sounds like you know you
know that
it's not your normal existence yeah i
was aware i was conscious
you can't get back there yeah and you're
wondering am i ever gonna be
normal again that's the scary part about
it right like if i was like ignorant to
it
and i just kind of pride myself and i
went brain you know whatever the hell
right
like i'm sure that'd be shitty and
[ __ ] up probably more so for those
around me
but i myself wouldn't know but being
hyper aware of the situation and being
trapped within myself
knowing that it's not me but being stuck
in this thing where i know how i should
feel
but what i do feel is this terror and
there's nothing i can do to make it go
away it's just this it's this terrible
terrible thing
and so um it sounds like you got
treatment at some point the psychotic
break i did
i went to the hospital and stuff and
yeah and then i ended up seeing a
psychiatrist psychiat i'mma give it a
buck 50 with you you're the best
psychiatrist i've ever
see you know obviously we're doing this
this isn't an actual session but you're
the best psychiatrist
i've ever seen in my entire life i've
been to hundreds
okay of psychiatrists and psychologists
every
no joke no exagger i know i exaggerate a
[ __ ] ton this one thing i'm not
exaggerating every psychiatrist i have
seen
i walk into the office okay because
they're all from referral
the ones i saw i couldn't just see i had
to go through you know and i get a
referral
to them i'd walk in
no eye contact you know sitting there
already writing a prescription right no
[ __ ] given of the context of what's
going on just kind of assuming the worst
right
you know ask me a question i try to give
him context just the typical
condescending patronizing
all right tyler you're going to take
this and this and this and then leave it
to me right it's like no shot
none of them listened none of them gave
a [ __ ] right like there's a big
difference between
you know an in you know an induced
psychotic break versus
you know some hereditary natural
occurrence of one right like there's a
difference but they didn't give a [ __ ]
about that right
they didn't care that mine was induced
through steroid usage and drug usage
right so like it was just this all of
them to all of them and these are like
top-rated psychiatrists they just didn't
give a [ __ ]
psychologist on their hand i loved right
i mean it took me it took me a long time
you know and i hear this this is common
between a lot of people and i think this
will actually help people
you know if you feel like your
psychologist doesn't you know connect
with you
listen keep moving around keep keep
keep testing out new ones you know
eventually you'll find one that's on
your wavelength right that understands
you you know there's some that
are very uh like what's what i'm trying
like
like mathematical they're very like
precise rational right like
there is no feeling and you know they
don't understand the irrationalness
right
and and i can't vibe with that kind of
person right i can't do it
so i have to find someone that's on my
wavelength understands my feelings my
impulses
no matter how irrational they are
understands them on that level
and it took me [ __ ] i probably it took
me about six seven months to find one
person that
ended up really really uh connecting
with me and i remember
i'm gonna cry the moment i found that
person
i remember i tried to say i try to say
one word
and i just bro i cried the entire
session for the first like two weeks
every session for the first two weeks i
had three sessions a week i cried
all of them just like six sessions i
only cried
like there's nothing else said he said
okay see you next week
i i just cried for six weeks it was for
succession
it was just insane yeah it was crazy but
yeah you'll find one if you hop around
there's someone out there for you that
will understand you so definitely uh
keep trying you know don't be
unmotivated if
if if you don't find the right
psychologist in the first go
yeah train i'm really glad you're kind
of sharing that message with everyone
because i'd echo at 100
um you know i think that fit is so
important
and there are so many different styles
of of therapy and styles of therapists
and even styles of psychiatrists
and and i think that like you know what
we meant the mental health
you know clinical training is is not
precise
right you have all these different
theories and all these different
perspectives and like you've got
freudian people and jungian people
and cognitive behavioral therapists and
psychodynamic therapists and
people who are a little bit mindfulness
oriented and there's just so many
different flavors and i think really
therapy because we don't have the
instruments that the rest of medicine
does
you know when you've got ct scans and
and blood tests and
and you know covet nasal swabs and
things like that there's a lot of
precision
about how to handle things right and how
to do things you know what's right and
what isn't
yeah whereas my experience in in therapy
has been that it's it's really
more or just as much art as it is
science there's a lot of science to it
but
you know we don't there it's interesting
there have been studies done where
people will try to classify like
characteristics of patients and classify
characteristics of of therapists
and they'll try to match them based on
using data
and it turns out that that doesn't work
you know you can try to do as much data
analysis as you want to you can say oh
like train has
a history of addictions and this therap
this therapist has a lot of experience
with addictions
maybe they'll be a good match turns out
that you can't really it just doesn't
work
can't match people um yep there's no uh
there's no formula well people haven't
figured it out yet i think that there's
still a formula out there
but you know we just haven't we don't
have the precision we haven't been able
to capture that
that secret sauce that allows you to see
therapists for six months
and and see this next person and then
like really open up to them for two
weeks and also for that therapist to
know how to respond to you opening up
for them to understand that you know
these tears have been built up
and the dam is opening up and that like
we got to just let them out
thank you so much for sharing your
perspective i think um
thank you no problem i actually uh after
i stopped using uh
drugs or hard drugs like that like
heroin and stuff like that like meth
after i stopped like entirely
i actually went back and helped some of
my old friends that were addicted and
you know obviously i tried to get them
to a psychologist you know after i
finally got them out of denial heroin
denial is one of those
it's like i don't i don't give a [ __ ]
like i don't
i've seen gambling denial i've seen
every drug denial heroin denial
is so frustrating
it just if they don't want it it's not
going to happen
you could put them you could force them
i've seen parents do it you could force
them two years of rehab
the moment they come out they might be
good for a week you better bet your ass
the first difficult thing that they face
they can't handle and they go right back
to it you have to
you have to want it what's up how did
you come out of your denial
well i wanted to
right like that's the difference like so
there's one thing that i had that helped
me a lot in that
and it's what i talked about earlier i
kind of have this
so my anchor
it's a dream it's an idea it's highly
improbable but not impossible and that's
my
anchor in life and i've taken that and
i've
buried it deep deep deep within me where
i can never be taken away you know
unless i'm killed
and that is what got me out of it
it's to achieve that to get that like
the wanting of that the
feeling that that gave me you know
it but was that always there yeah it was
it's been there since i can remember so
i'm going to
express a little bit of skepticism just
because i want to kind of push you on
this
and because i i'm sure that you'll have
the answer but i think it's important to
find because
like here's here's what i'm thinking
okay so the dream was always deep within
you
and then there's this period of time in
college where despite the dream
and then when i asked you how did you
get out of it you said well i started
wanting my dream
but then at the same time like i don't
see how that's different from when you
were in college
and you were using and finding that
balance and you the dream was always
there
so still like how did you move from like
where you were in college to like
wanting to quit i understand that you
say that you have to want to so then the
question
kind of i i ask sort of as a clinician
and i ask like theoretically and also
like educationally
is how does what was your journey to
change your wants
to value that over the heroin or other
things like
like how did you come out of the denial
i get that that's the anchor that was
your north star but like
why did you start caring about moving
towards the north star to begin with
um i think
it's
i i you know i've never really thought
about that but if i were to
try to think about it right now on the
spot and kind of give you a quick thing
i'd have to reflect on it a lot more to
give you an actual accurate answer but
if i were to guess right now
i would say it's how i was raised i
would say it's my parents it's the love
they kind of instilled within me
um you know they kind of taught me like
they gave me a self-worth that they gave
me you know like
i think that that's what it is because i
remember all the times that i stopped
it wasn't this thing where i planned it
okay i'm gonna do this for four days
because i have four days
right that's not how i went down i did
it day one i didn't think of the next
day
right and then each of these times
every time it never failed i'd wake up
randomly after day six or day five or
day seven or day four
i'm like what the [ __ ] am i doing right
like
it's like it was never me to begin with
i'd be like what the [ __ ] am i doing
and that one realization where the other
me kind of wakes up
right i don't know if we want to go as
deep as saying maybe it's the bipolar
split personality
i don't know but the other way like what
the [ __ ] going on here right
and that me would always come out
after the aftermath of me
[ __ ] my body and my body was weak and
i think like that weakness
allowed the other me to come out i don't
know i don't know it sounds like it's
some crazy talk i know it does but like
that was that was how it was done every
time okay cool yeah so that's what
happened every time
so so then but let me ask you another
question then i'm gonna keep pushing you
okay and and it's because i like i think
you're you're getting there
or i think this is like valuable because
i think this is this is the question
that everyone asks right train is like
how how did you quit
and what i'm gonna press you on now is
that like okay so you'd wake up you'd be
weak in your body
like you'd say like what the [ __ ] am i
doing and then like
the this like sort of this train that
was built up through
the love of your parents and like this
self-respect and things like that
basically like
shown through right it's almost like you
have cloudy skies and the sun's
always there and sometimes the clouds
part and you get this like ray of
sunshine so like after six days of a
bender
you get that ray of sunshine where
you're kind of like but then what
happens is the clouds always come back
right because then a month later two
months later three months later you
start using again
so what changed what what changed so
that
the awareness the awareness of it so
i'll tell you what i mean by that
what changed is
i've always so be you know
forgot what the [ __ ] it's called i think
it's called like hyper like
it's having bipolar and split
personality
you can have a version of it where
you're not aware and there's a version
or you're hyper aware
but you can't do anything about it still
right that's kind of been me in every
aspect of my life
so because of my hyper awareness
of the situation right like i understood
what the it's like i think i got lucky
and
my overthinking or i don't know what it
was i'm not sure what it was but
here's the point everyone says not even
once
everyone says this is addicting right
and because of my you know ability to go
on and off my because i you know
i never really got like that the urge
was never to do the
heroin the only urge i ever had was
maybe the withdrawals were [ __ ] [ __ ]
i wanted i didn't want to deal with them
today right but it was never the actual
heroine but i realized
a little bit later on what did not even
once meant i realized what the addiction
is
the addiction is what you just said
where the clouds come back
now what i've done is i've normalized
the new baseline
for my sorrows and for my escape right
for a lot of people that baseline is
alcohol it's weed
and that's it that's where they go
everything else is scary it's a no-no
but once you open up the realm and you
realize
holy [ __ ] i've popped this pill before
this feels the same this isn't that
scary thing on the commercial which it
is by the way
right once you do that that is your new
baseline so the next time that i
feel sad depressed and [ __ ] up with
nothing
going for me i'm not gonna think i'm
gonna have a drink i'm gonna think hey
where can i buy some heroin right
and i realized that is the lifelong
addiction
of the drug because it is now the
normalized new baseline for me
and once i realized that i understood
like that's kind of like that was like
half the part with it
i realized like it just needs to stop it
needs to be done otherwise
how did you realize it
i mean i this is gonna sound crazy but
this is a different i guess this is a
different talk i guess that this would
go into the bipolar split personality
ocd part of it all but
so every three to four months i'll wake
up
and i'll literally like
a whole new style whole new taste of
food
different body composition everything
different
everything you can think of favorite
color different what i'm into
right am i you know my poor girlfriend
you know i i feel so that she's such a
good girl she's such an amazing person
but she has to kind of deal with it but
i just get uninterested and
you know i i change completely like i'm
talking full body composition change
right like i'm talking like
from you know just normal body to like
everything tight athletic like it's it's
weird it's weird i don't understand it
i've been explaining to it 100 times
just wake up some days and you're ripped
no no no it's no
it's like every four months five months
that's like the cycle no i'm not ripped
but it's just like things are tighter
okay and my body composition is
different like tension
what the way i taste the way i smell
everything's different
okay i think
like i don't know how to answer how did
i know
i think that i i i i just kind of woke
up i'm like
what am i doing this is not this is
disgusting i just there was
there was a side of me i did not [ __ ]
with it it was it was it was a shame
right like and and that's that's that's
been the lifelong
[ __ ] it's been the curse of my [ __ ]
mental disease
i sit there for so long working
progressing
building on myself and then one day i
wake up
and i black out for like three months
and that three month me
ruins everything toss my money out don't
give a [ __ ]
go party [ __ ] my body up stop the gym
gamble everything away
i don't care and then i wake up again
right
three months after that not remembering
a [ __ ] thing
everything gone and i'm disgusted right
because that like there's
does that make any sense it's some crazy
[ __ ] [ __ ] that i can relate to
oddly enough i mean i i think for me it
was it was more with gaming but you know
in my first couple years of college and
even high school it was like
you know i disappear so start of the
semester this semester is going to be
different
right i'm going to study hard for the
first week i do fantastic
first weekend rolls around start playing
games
you know sunday night saturday night i
stay up super late
wake up late on sunday sunday night i
miss my class on monday ah [ __ ] it i
missed one class i can afford to miss a
class
skip the rest of my classes on monday
game tuesday rolls around
yep i did that too classic excuses i
like that
and then you know it's like now that
i've missed one class like i'll start
off it'll be better tomorrow it'll be
better tomorrow
and then like that's that doubt starts
creeping up at least for me i knew
i was making mistakes i was like it's
happening again
it's happening again and i'd be like
well well
that shows itself through like anxiety
depression like that
that's what it comes out as from your
subconscious right yeah so so so it
would start to come out from my
subconscious and i would say i'm doing
it again and i'd
snap the door closed on it i want
i definitely wanted that a lot myself
too yeah that's happened to me quite a
bit
and and then like anything to keep it
from coming out of the subconscious
so then i got to play more and more and
more and more and more
and then i found myself spiraling and i
knew i was [ __ ] up my life i think
the really interesting thing
is you know train i i know it sounds
like you're not making sense but this is
the story that i hear
over and over and over again this is why
addictions is so hard because i i think
at the end of the day like there are a
couple of questions that have been
bouncing around in my mind there are
going to be people watching
right now who may be where you were
in the middle of college where you
thought you were different you thought
you could handle it
and what i'm trying to figure out is
like what can we explore
in today's like discussion
that will help that person i got it i
got it yeah i got it cool
i got it now i got i i i know what
you're asking now okay so here is the
moment here's how
i realize it needs to stop here's how
i realized it needs to be done somewhere
so i actually wrote this thesis
um and
it was it was a very informal one um it
was kind of i was [ __ ] around i
shouldn't even call it a thesis i just
call it a paper
um delusions of grandeur and [ __ ] like
that call it what a nice train called
thesis and i i feel like that there's
this you know
obviously you know i don't have the
stats to back it but you know just just
from
you know it's anecdotal just say it
train i thought i feel like there's this
this age category from like
18 to like 24 where
we are as men at least suffering from
the most
just like the deepest denial delusions
of grandeur like we are
different and every justification like
that we can like
just everything that can like some crazy
[ __ ] like that
the point that allowed me to understand
and stop
is somewhere in the psychotic break
which i guess isn't
something you want to hear but like
someone on the scottish break
i realized i wasn't different i realized
that i was the the same as everyone
and
that's it like i literally i just
realized i was not
different i was not special there wasn't
this mystical force
guarding me and watching over me that
you know when i would survive a car
crash and i said someone's watch there's
a purpose right
that's all [ __ ] right like i mean
knock on wood you know god forbid maybe
there was someone but like
it doesn't tie into that right like or
how i passed this exam or how i did this
or how i guessed on this and that got it
right right
i just realized i was the same as others
when i realized that
i realized that this
rationalization i guess you shouldn't
call it that but this justification i
was making it
this excuse i was giving myself that i
can control this
is wrong because this can't be
controlled
and then that's kind of what led me down
that path i think was the discovery and
understanding that i am not different
right like you know your parents are
going to tell you that every day like
and maybe in different
different fields you are maybe in soccer
you're better than you know the one
percent right and you're great
right but i'm talking like you know
foundationally as a human
being right like i think the the most
common thing i've seen
from my friends is i can read people
that's the most common like delusion
and delusions of grandeur like the
denial i've seen from people who think
they're different
i can read people i know when you're
lying right but if you actually look
deeper into that
like the only reason you know someone's
lying and you can read into them is
because
you've seen traits from either things
that you've done you know
uh personality traits you have and
experiences you've lived through
uh lived through right and from that if
you're smart enough you'll realize holy
[ __ ]
i i'm not able to read him because i'm
different i'm another read them because
i am the same
right and then from there you kind of
humble
you get humble and you realize you need
to get your [ __ ] together that's kind of
what happened does that make sense
makes perfect sense yeah so good news is
that i don't think you have to have a
psychotic break to realize that
although i'm surprised that's why i want
to bring that up and i think there's a
lot of
cool stuff here train a lot that i think
needs to be
talked about can i kind of take the
reins for a second take the reins
or like can i grab ah yeah grab whatever
i'm taking yeah
let's do it okay so i'm just going to
kind of like feel free to jump in i'm
just going to sort of like think through
this because i think train you've said
so much man first of all
thank you so much for sharing all this i
think um you know i know a lot of it's
pretty heavy stuff i know a lot of it um
may seem embarrassing but i i think it's
not for me
it's been really enlightening
the first thing to understand is that
like okay so people are in denial right
that's the biggest problem it doesn't
really matter if you're talking about
addictions or other things
but people are in denial like you said
we we start off by sort of telling
ourselves
it's okay for us like we're different we
can handle it it's in balance
you know and then what happens is your
mind points to the things
that are in balance it's setting up kind
of like this kind of fake news sort of
like
situation where you're gonna point to
your gpa and you're gonna point to this
you're gonna point to that and your mind
is gonna tell you see
because of these things we're actually
fine you see those guys have their [ __ ]
together and they're using
it's going to selectively ignore on a
saturday you wake up bruised and
battered because you got into a fight
last night it's gonna gloss over that
part
it's gonna gloss over the parts where
like oh my my parents are like
you know think i have a problem or these
people it's gonna gloss over all kinds
of stuff
and that's what really denial is it's
sort of like this very selective
interpretation of your events and then
you kind of went on to
sort of say like yeah i'm i'm not sure
exactly
you use these terms like i realized
right i woke up one day and it just dot
dot and this is what makes addictions
really confusing is because when you ask
people about their journey
what they tell you is like a change in
their mind as opposed to actions
and as human beings we know how to
duplicate actions but we don't know how
to duplicate
realizations and and this is something
that in sanskrit
we talk about a lot which is that there
are two words for knowledge
one is vidya which is information and is
transmissible
and the second is nyan which is
understanding
and is subjective so vidya is objective
and nyan is subjective and as a society
generally speaking in western society or
just
globally now we value video over neon
we say that unless you can explain it to
me unless you can prove it to me
unless it is objective it does not have
value
so our our our society has evolved to
like appreciate science
over opinion right objectivity over
subjectivity
and in doing that we've lost the
subjective
we've lost because what happened in you
was not an object of change it was a
subject of change
it was in realizing right so realizing
is not
on a book information is on a book
and we value things like there was that
guy on youtube who was like
i read 300 books a day or whatever right
he talked about like reading all these
books and how like
because he's smart because he reads a
ton but the question is what do you
understand
what do you absorb how does change
happen inside you
and this is what's really challenging
about addictions if you talk to people
about their journey what they say is
i woke up one day and it was just
different
and then everyone who's struggling with
the addiction is like well what the [ __ ]
am i supposed to do with that
how do i wake up one day and be
different
and so this is where there are two
important pieces okay the first
is that i want you guys to understand
that that subconscious change
even though it it reaches a tipping
point like for train at a particular
point
that subconscious change is being built
over time
so what we hear from train is that
there's like this addictive force which
let's say like
has a strength of 58 and then there's
like the
insightful like loving train that's deep
down within him
that's got a strength of like 10. and
every time you have a bender you wake up
and then like that
that that strength of 10 sort of like
looks at your life and is like what's
going on here
and every moment you have that awareness
you level up to 12
and then you go on another bender and
then like because 58 is bigger than 12
right and then like you level up again
i have to re-clarify something yeah now
now i understand why you gave me that
example
um of you felt that so what i was
explaining to you of when i like black
out for three months and i'm different
everything
that wasn't i wasn't using drugs that
was me normal
sober right that was just my bipolar
right like that's what that was
right so four or five months does that
make sense i wasn't referring to my drug
use like this is
uh past the drug use this is what
happens to this day like right now what
happened sure sure
i think i teased that apart that you
still struggle with this because you
mentioned your girlfriend has to deal
with it and things like that so i i
think i was aware of that
yeah yeah um but i still think that this
sort of as you go through
the substance use like you're going to
have these moments where the sun shines
through
and every time that happens you level up
and eventually what happens is it one
day you wake up and then like the true
self
is it like a 59 or 60 and that's when
you start to win against the addiction
and what i see from people that i work
with with addictions is they'll kind of
say like oh i was sober for nine months
and then i
relapsed and they're filled with shame
and they're like oh i [ __ ] it up
i threw it all away right because we're
a society that values
quantifiable results it's all about
tesla's stock price
and you know where i am on the on the
latter for a particular video game
and how much money is in my bank account
it's all about numbers
and we say i threw away nine months of
sobriety but what i see with people that
i work with
is that you know you threw away nine
months of writing no big deal you
threw away nine months you don't have to
you you relapsed fine
you elapsed for like a day it doesn't
have to be like a nine-month bender
right you can still change that and
over time the duration of relapses and
the frequency of relapses
decreases as long as you keep on
becoming more aware
yes yeah and this is the key thing is
that this is this is an issue of nyan
not vidyas you can't learn it from a
book
and so what people need to understand is
that they can listen to a thousand
conversations with train
but trains answer is never gonna work
for for them because what they need to
do is not
learn they need to realize
yeah experience but the other
interesting thing about realization
is that learning implies that knowledge
is on the outside
realize implies that knowledge is
actually already within
you right so it's interesting when
people use the word i realize that means
you already
knew on some level you've always known
on some level
so instead of looking outside people
need to like
look within right i know it's kind of
scenario yes
that's that's that's it that's and then
if we listen to your psychotic break so
this is kind of interesting that
there's a shared realm between psychosis
meditation and hallucinogen use
which is the way that it affects this
part of your brain called the default
mode network
and the default mode network is the part
of your brain that
lets you look at you so when we kind of
say that like human beings are different
from animals because we're self-aware
and there's a particular cognitive test
you can do on some animals where they
can like recognize themselves in a
mirror
that implies that they have the capacity
to be
how can i say this they can look at
themselves so they can be the
object of your own observation and the
default mode network is the thing that
allows you to look at yourself
now this is kind of interesting because
in depression the default mode network
actually gets
really really overblown and someone in
depression is always thinking about
themselves
they're thinking oh i'm a piece of [ __ ]
these people don't like me they'd be
better off without me all that kind of
stuff
um and so hold on there's a lot of
what is going on
sorry i'm confused why there's a bunch
of stuff being
banned from chat well i'm actually
looking at uh the usernames and
your mods are doing a very good job
because i recognize that assad nine guy
he's
you know he's a fan of mine he's a good
dude but he's toxic so
that seems like a good band good job
moderator i'm gonna keep going
so um what what i was kind of saying is
that with the default mode network it's
like you get
to way too preoccupied with yourself and
in depression it gets way worse
so people are always thinking about like
if you're having a bad day
my default mode network is hyperactive
so i think that you having a bad day is
my fault
if my default mode network is active so
i can't shake
my own ego and what i'm really hearing
for you in that psychotic break is what
you got past was your own ego right like
when you say
i am different that's your ego and when
you shatter that ego and you begin to
say
i am no longer different i'm i'm the
same as everyone else
and so it seemed like for you that
happened through psychosis but this is
where
you know psychedelics can do it
meditation can do it self-reflection can
do it
journaling can do it community service
can do it
developing humility and sort of
performing an ego
egodectomy the removal of your ego
is actually like the most important
thing to gain insight
you need to stop doing that thing where
your your mind your ego goes to your
intellect and bullies
and says hey i need to come up with a
really really selective way for me to
feel good about me using the substance
and so you ignore a bunch of stuff and
when your ego gets removed from the
equation
then you stop ignoring that stuff you
start to see yourself as you are
with all of your flaws and all of your
strengths
and that's how you gain security that's
how you get self-acceptance that's how
you gain self-love
because we heard you kind of talk about
those concepts but i think these two
things
are are really really tied together and
the most bizarre thing train i think is
that like
when i listen to your story i think
about your karma
and just what your addiction has done
for you
in terms of your personal journey and
how you've grown
so much through walking this journey how
you've come to learn
so much about yourself how you've come
to learn and understand
other people you know and like have a
have like a back pocket full of wild ass
awesome stories
which you know on the one hand we kind
of don't want to glorify because that
doesn't you know i'm not advocating that
people do it but like
let's at least acknowledge that that's a
wild story to listen to right
i got some crazy [ __ ] for you dr k
believe me oh man dude like i
i hope you so like this is kind of weird
it's it's a strange value judgment to
place but i really hope that
you or someone in your family like your
immediate siblings have kids
and then they have kids because you
would make one hell of a grandad
i'm an only child unfortunately but yeah
i think like i could absolutely see you
at like 70 and like bent over and like
telling stories to your grandkids
they're like what
oh like 16 and they're like telling
stories about
you know how grandpa used to do this and
that'd be nuts i think one to kind of
touch up on what you're saying
i think i actually want to add something
because i you know i think it's one of
the
biggest biggest issues with today's
society and the way
you know i'm not sure if this is the way
the world is or just the way america is
um because because of america's social
structure and [ __ ] like that
but one of the biggest issues that i see
is the lack of communication and honesty
between people now what i mean by that
is
everybody has their issues
everybody has issues that if they
communicate with others
and if they were honest about right and
i'm not talking to people that aren't
ready to express them i'm talking about
people who are
uh uh um intentionally hiding them
in order to front that their life is
better than the other right
a good example of this is let's say um
back in school
there was always group of kids that they
were miserable
you knew that like i knew at least they
were miserable studying for this exam
they hated it
but when the kid that had you know
a harder time paying attention would go
ask them for help or say hey is this
really easy for you they'd say yeah this
is cake
i knew this [ __ ] like five years ago
right but in reality
so now that person is gonna think that
they're dumb that person is going to
think that there's an issue the person
is going to think the issues within
themselves
right everyone's fronting to each other
everyone's making their life seem
absolutely amazing like they're
absolutely perfect like they absolutely
understand everything they have no
stress they have no sadness they have no
happiness they have no this they have no
that
just to look good for others and what
this does is sure in the short term you
look good you look like everything's
great but you're the most sad
and that sadness would be cured if you
just can't get hey listen
right comfort in others is so powerful
if you can just be honest be like hey
yeah [ __ ] terrible i had to study for
eight hours my parents made me i would
be honest right
the dude will feel much better like oh
[ __ ] then i gotta go do the same right
but like that ripple effect of that
single lie just to look good
it causes so much [ __ ] i'm telling you
like and this applies to every field
in every social situation for everything
so i don't know how the [ __ ] we solve
that but
that's a big issue i've noticed
throughout my life
does that make any sense yeah i think it
makes a lot of sense so you know we have
an interesting thing that we
tell our coaches which is kind of like
so
we try not to be judgmental right like
as a society
we say that judgments are bad like you
shouldn't judge me like who are you to
judge me
you know what i mean yeah like like so
and like if we think about it
lying and fronting is about did i use
that term right
yeah fronting is about
avoiding a particular judgment or
creating a particular judgment right
if i if i walk in before the test and i
say oh yeah i didn't really study for it
but i'm going to crush it and secretly i
was like
laboring away for 80 hours yeah last
week yeah
and i want to make it look easy and i
want everyone to know you know how smart
i am oh
[ __ ] jobs you all have to study for
this [ __ ]
yep i do quantum mechanics on the toilet
you know scrubs
and it's so so we we say something
that's kind of interesting which
has been tricky for coaches to learn is
that i actually don't advocate for them
to be non-judgmental
what i advocate for is for them to be
authentic and compassionate
and if your client is doing something
bad
you absolutely judge them for it but you
do it with compassion you should be
authentic
like authentic and and authenticity and
compassion
i think are like our biggest antidotes
to a world
full of like lies and fronting
right we have to like we have to hold
people accountable for
what they say and they do but we should
do it in a compassionate way
because i think non-judgmentalness is
kind of tricky because
like if someone [ __ ] up what we're not
gonna judge them for it like how does
that help anyone any
you know it's kind of weird but i think
it's part of the
you know cancel culture and this kind of
stuff is that like on the one hand we
judge
really really harshly if it's sort of
like righteous
and then on the other hand it's like you
can't you know
if i give a talk on the internet about
the
you know mortality risk of obesity
with covid19 which there's an over
overwhelming amount of data for
suddenly i'm fat shaming and it's like
i'm not allowed to say that
because someone's feelings are hurt and
they feel judged
and that's sort of where like you know
as a as a psychiatrist i realized a long
time ago
you know part of my job is to judge
people but to do so like they deserve
honesty for me like they deserve
authenticity from me
you know they deserve for me to not lie
to them and then you have to be careful
because
that's how you can turn into one of
these blunt [ __ ] where like i'm
i'm a truth speaker i'm gonna go tell
everyone how ugly they are because
it is my ideal to be true but then you
have to temper that with compassion
i hate that yeah that's the biggest
problem i notice right that there's this
there are these uh differing definitions
of
you know real and fake you know
authentic and
you know uh disingenuous whatever the
[ __ ] right
and one of them is very childish and
immature and that's the one that i see
use the most
right and it's if you're real you know
you never you never lie you see how it
is right but it's like when you grow
older you realize it's not black and
white
right it's very subjective there's a lot
of gray area right if i meet my
girlfriend's parents and i hate them
right i can't be like hey what's up
[ __ ] i don't [ __ ] like you but
i'm [ __ ] your daughter
right that's that's not right it's not
right it might be how i
feel but not actually please don't kill
me you know but
right that's not right that says more
about me in a negative way than it does
a positive in a sense of realness right
like i like if if anything if i'm
someone that is real right or someone
that was authentic
i would have the maturity i'd have the
respect
to understand that it doesn't matter how
i feel about this individual right i'm
dating his daughter i need to have
respect for him
and i need to treat him kindly right and
it's it's that simple
right it's like so like these are the
players in today's society yeah go ahead
so like i see this a lot trained with
with um
with people that i work with that i
would call pseudo spiritual
so like a lot of people that you know
come across
my world or like spiritual people who
are like interested in spirituality
sometimes it'll be like
you know if we do consulting for like a
company or something like someone who's
spiritual will show up
like people in our community you know
there's kind of spiritual and sometimes
people are pseudo spiritual and what i
mean by that is they're like
they like they have a big ego about
being spiritual but they're not actually
like
they may work hard and they may like
talk the talk but they're not really
walking the walk in the most important
ways
and a good example of that is like so so
like you know people who sort of say
that
you know i'm gonna live in the present
and
and i want to be present focused and i
want to be like unattached
you know like they say these kinds of
like spiritual things so what that means
is that like
even though i have a girlfriend if like
in the in the present moment if i want
to [ __ ] someone else
i'm going to [ __ ] him you know because
that's like me being like authentic
to myself train i want to be like my
authentic self i don't want to be like
you know pinned down
by like worldly conceptions and i'm
going to be like in the present moment
and authentic to myself
and so this is like a classic example of
like a pseudo-spiritual person
and it's really interesting because if
you look at um you know the system of
yoga
and and like their they kind of have
this hierarchy and what they say is that
you know truthfulness is really
important but the
most important thing is ahimsa or
non-violence
so truthfulness should always be subject
to non-violence
and so not hurting another human being
trumps truthfulness and all truthfulness
should only be
shared if it is non-violent truthfulness
and so there's kind of this hierarchy
where like you're you're even if you're
trying to be an authentic person
so we kind of say authenticity with
compassion with our coaches and i think
that's a big part of like what they do
and like
i think that's a big part of what our
community needs and craves
is like you know this is something that
i sort of dislike a little bit about
therapy i sometimes feel like therapy is
way too non-judgmental
personally so i tend to be like a
judgmental therapist
where people will you know i'll be like
what the [ __ ] man
you kind of [ __ ] up there and and so
you know some of my colleagues will
never say that to a client
or therapist or patient and they'll be
like how could you ever you know
and it's like i kind of feel like you
know
they know they're [ __ ] up i know they
[ __ ] up we all know we [ __ ] up let's
call it what it is so that we can do
something about it
and especially in our community people
need to be called out for what they're
doing yes
you have to do that they're already
getting the babying treatment from their
parents and friends right like
they need something like what you're
doing i agree with that completely at
least yeah i mean so i think it's
important to be compassionate like it's
not calling them out for the sake of
like justice
it's calling them out because it's like
hey man if you made a mistake like let's
work on it
so that you don't have to make that
mistake anymore yes but pretending it's
okay
is not how you fix a problem you know
agreed
um so i'm with you i know we're kind of
off topic but i
i think from a you know an addiction
standpoint uh
trained i thought it was like wonderful
what you shared in kind of your journey
and stuff um you know i think i'm i'm
lucky that that you did
make it through right because it sounds
like a lot of the stuff that you were
doing was really dangerous i'm lucky
yeah
and i cannot emphasize this enough like
that is not an rng game that you guys
want to be playing
it is not it's not at all it's terrible
it's absolutely disgusting terrible
100 um and it it well i'm gonna say this
one thing as well it takes listen
it takes a piece of you away right i'm
not gonna be as dramatic
you know and and and reference it to
like one of those movie things where you
know when you kill someone it takes a
soul piece of your soul away but like it
definitely takes a piece of something
away from you
when you touch these drugs i'd say any
drugs realistically like i'd say any
drugs i'd say even the softest of drugs
you don't even classify as drugs like
i'm telling you like if i could go back
there's one thing i'd change
it would be like even though it taught
me a lot gave me a lot of experience
i still would try to stay sober
the sober me it was different right like
it i'm telling you it takes a piece
it takes a piece away that you never get
back
so don't ever do it ever [ __ ] trash
it's not worth
yeah yeah i'll just say yeah
cool man well caffeine doesn't count i'm
do caffeine happen no matter what you
know what i'm saying
caffeine standing being off caffeine is
really nice
yeah it is because because then in two
weeks when you drink it again it [ __ ]
juices you
i like that yeah man so any um
i'm kind of thinking like i may like you
want to talk about meditation for a
minute
or any like last thoughts questions what
are you how you feeling
[Music]
um
hmm
[Music]
i like you dr k i like you too i like
you
doc i like doc so there's
it's fine dk hey dk
doctor that's that's
i don't know is there anything else is
there anything else for you
uh i mean i think so a lot of people i
think are going to be wondering
how do i get rid of my ego so i thought
i would just share
some like a different a slightly
different kind of meditative technique
um for those also there's i'm so sorry
to interrupt
there's also a tr so in between getting
rid of ego there's a trap door
okay it's the last hurrah for the ego
and that trap door it is damn near
same as losing your ego you understand
it is gaining an ego through the loss of
your ego when you lose your ego that's
differentiating you from most people
therefore you find a new justification
of why you're different
without actually knowing you're
different and thinking you've lost your
ego and that's the last trapdoor you
need to [ __ ] pass before you actually
lose it does that make sense
makes it's brilliant so this is
something that one of my teachers in
india
monk told me like 17 years ago
and it's it's awesome it feels really
full circle to hear it from you today
so he said there are two kinds of ego
there's the regular ego
and then there's the ego of having no
ego
i've learned that one the hard way look
at how spiritual i am look at how
egoless i am
what's up [ __ ] get on my level
get on my egoness level you scrubs
get rekt shitties you all with your big
egos
not like me that's right well said
well said thank you um and and so it's
it's interesting because the
process of sublimating your ego it gets
subtler and subtler and subtler
um but i'll just share with you guys
just like uh i mean we can hop off the
call if you want to or you can stay on
but i was just going to share a quick
technique about um ego dissolution
i can watch on stream just see more
channels we can do your thing i'll watch
on stream so you can just kind of
connect with everybody
okay cool let's connect again for part
six we'll think of something for part
six i want to keep doing this
part six has got to be something good we
can do story time we can talk about some
crazy [ __ ]
we'll talk about something okay we gotta
do part six soon
and also uh uh also i'm to send you a
code where you can get my merch for free
you got to get this it would look great
on you i'm telling you uh okay
thank you very much train i got you no
problem love you bye bye
so who are we rating chat okay are we
rating
i candice is that is that are you guys
trolling me or like